[Music]
most of us can go without it for about a
half a minute before our body demands a
breath of this gas today it's what would
happen if earth lost oxygen for five
seconds I think we'd all hold our breath
like this but there's actually more to
it
[Music]
you live work sleep eat and have fun
without giving a second thought to the
miraculous substance that makes it all
possible
oxygen most of us can go without it for
about a half a minute before our body
demands a breath of this gas by the way
the record time for a person voluntarily
holding their breath is more than 24
minutes Wow can you imagine what would
happen to our planet if oxygen
disappeared for just five seconds we bet
the consequences are much worse than
you'd ever dreamed
if earth lost oxygen for even a short
period of time the results would be
disastrous see for yourself
number one the crust of the planet would
crumble the earth beneath your feet
would start to crack until it turned
into dust this would continue until
there was nothing to stand on
that's because Earth's crust is 45%
oxygen so if this gas disappeared you'd
experience freefall because there would
be no more ground number two most people
would suffer from hearing loss yes
you're hearing depends on oxygen to be
exact it's not hearing itself but the
organ your ability to hear depends on
your eardrum if oxygen were to disappear
suddenly it would cause a loss of more
than 20% of air pressure
that's similar to ascending from sea
level to a height of 330 feet in one
second such a difference between
altitudes won't allow your eardrums to
acclimate to the pressure changes if
oxygen suddenly disappeared you'd be
shot by berra trauma which typically
occurs with a sharp change of pressure
have your ears ever become blocked when
your plane was gaining height or when
you were scuba diving with no oxygen
you'd feel something like this but much
stronger and much more painful your
inner ear would simply explode this
would most likely lead to loss of
hearing but da number three people
relaxing in the Sun would get terrible
burns what protects you from the UV rays
coming from the Sun this hero in the gas
called ozone which traps UV before it
enters the troposphere but a zone
consists of three molecules of oxygen o
3 so if oxygen disappeared have you ever
imagined living in a grill that's what
life on earth would be like without
oxygen number 4 water reservoirs would
begin to evaporate immediately water
contains two ingredients one part or 33%
oxygen and two parts hydrogen if there
were no oxygen water would instantly
become gaseous due to the main state of
hydrogen in fact hydrogen is the
lightest chemical on the periodic scale
that's why it would just go up to the
troposphere and then leak out into space
as you can see without oxygen
our green planet would become an
extremely dry desert in less than 5
seconds number five all concrete
constructions would fall to pieces
this may sound surprising but structures
made from concrete need oxygen to stay
rigid it's a crucial binder that keeps
them together if oxygen disappeared all
buildings bridges and roads made of
concrete would simply fall apart ha
having fun yet number 6 untreated metals
would weld together the main reason why
metals don't become welded when they
come into contact with each other is the
layer of oxidation they are coated with
when placed in a vacuum
metals weld even without the liquid
phase that is necessary in other cases
this fact is taken advantage of in cold
welding if there were no oxygen metals
would fuse together in the blink of an
eye number 7 cars with internal
combustion engines wouldn't work
vehicles that rely on internal
combustion engines to burn fuel and move
in fact all vehicles except electric
cars would stop working they all need
oxygen to allow the process of
combustion to occur without oxygen cars
would stop dead in their tracks and
airplanes and helicopters would drop
down to the ground from the sky
number eight the day would become as
dark as night the surface of our planet
receives sunlight after its particles
are reflected off particles contained in
the air such as air impurities dust and
most importantly oxygen molecules if
there were no oxygen molecules in the
air there would be fewer particles for
the light to bounce off that's why the
sky would look extremely dark almost
black there would be light but it
wouldn't look like what we're used to
rays of Sun coming from everywhere it
would seem as if the light was coming
from a point source number nine every
gas fired boiler or power generator
would go out and so would fires all gas
fired equipment and fires would
immediately go out gas needs oxygen to
burn the same can be said about fire
when you burn something you start a
reaction of this material with oxygen so
in other words fire is the byproduct of
this reaction so no oxygen no fire
number ten people wouldn't notice any
changes in terms of breathing ah you
would be shocked by millions of cars
stopping everywhere planes falling from
the sky the ground crumbling away and
buildings turning to dust but at the
same time your body wouldn't notice a
lack of oxygen people start suffocating
only when there's a high level of carbon
dioxide in their blood
not a deficiency of oxygen so what would
happen after these five seconds when
oxygen appeared in the atmosphere again
surprise we're back
there would be a huge and terrifying
explosion this would occur due to the
oxidation of all the seas and oceans and
all other bodies of water on our planet
earth would probably become incredibly
cold for several seconds after this
explosion you can see that oxygen is
irreplaceable when it comes to
supporting life but are there other uses
for this gas besides the one we have
already mentioned I have no doubt oxygen
is used by hospitals doctors can enrich
gashes and aesthetics with oxygen to
increase the chances of a patient
survival oxygen is used to clean
wastewater workers at treatment plants
have recently started using pure oxygen
in its gaseous state oxygen has become a
means of recreation have you tried pure
oxygen or perhaps its flavored
alternative in a special oxygen bar such
cocktails are believed to reduce stress
and improve your mood oxygen can cool
you down in its liquid state oxygen is
widely used as a coolant for example it
cools rocket systems there is also
commercial oxygen coolants that cater to
the average consumer pneumatic systems
also use oxygen compressed oxygen is
cheap and effective if you've ever used
pneumatic drills paint sprayers and
riveters you're acquainted with it
scientists use oxygen as an ecological
indicator for instance they can study
the oxygen content of a water reservoir
and determine how healthy its ecosystem
is so what consequence of oxygen
disappearance seems the most terrifying
do tell us in the comments below
remember to give this video a like and
subscribe to our Channel
[Music]
this way you'll always be on the bright
side of life